src/pages/blog/2017-01-04-a-beginners-guide-to-brewing-with-chemex.md, before:

---
templateKey: blog-post
title: A beginners’ guide to brewing with Chemex
date: 2017-01-04T15:04:10.000Z
featuredpost: false
featuredimage: /img/chemex.jpg
description: Brewing with a Chemex probably seems like a complicated, time-consuming ordeal, but once you get used to the process, it becomes a soothing ritual that's worth the effort every time.
tags:
  - brewing
  - chemex
---
![chemex](/img/chemex.jpg)

This week we’ll **take** a look at all the steps required to make astonishing coffee with a Chemex at home. The Chemex Coffeemaker is a manual, pour-over style glass-container coffeemaker that Peter Schlumbohm invented in 1941, and which continues to be manufactured by the Chemex Corporation in Chicopee, Massachusetts.

In 1958, designers at the [Illinois Institute of Technology](https://www.spacefarm.digital) said that the Chemex Coffeemaker is _"one of the best-designed products of modern times"_, and so is included in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art in New York City.

## The little secrets of Chemex brewing

The Chemex Coffeemaker consists of an hourglass-shaped glass flask with a conical funnel-like neck (rather than the cylindrical neck of an Erlenmeyer flask) and uses proprietary filters, made of bonded paper (thicker-gauge paper than the standard paper filters for a drip-method coffeemaker) that removes most of the coffee oils, brewing coffee with a taste that is different than coffee brewed in other coffee-making systems; also, the thicker paper of the Chemex coffee filters may assist in removing cafestol, a cholesterol-containing compound found in coffee oils. Here’s three important tips newbies forget about:

1. Always buy dedicated Chemex filters.
2. Use a scale, don’t try to eyeball it.
3. Never skip preheating the glass.
4. Timing is key, don’t forget the clock.

The most visually distinctive feature of the Chemex is the heatproof wooden collar around the neck, allowing it to be handled and poured when full of hot water. This is turned, then split in two to allow it to fit around the glass neck. The two pieces are held loosely in place by a tied leather thong. The pieces are not tied tightly and can still move slightly, retained by the shape of the conical glass.

For a design piece that became popular post-war at a time of Modernism and precision manufacture, this juxtaposition of natural wood and the organic nature of a hand-tied knot with the laboratory nature of glassware was a distinctive feature of its appearance.

Commit message:

Update Services “2017-01-04-a-beginners-guide-to-brewing-with-chemex”

src/pages/blog/2017-01-04-a-beginners-guide-to-brewing-with-chemex.md, after:

---
templateKey: blog-post
title: Residential
date: 2020-03-02T15:04:00.000Z
description: >-
  Our skilled, dependable staff will give your home the personalized care and
  attention it needs at every step of the process. We only use the highest
  quality materials.
featuredpost: false
featuredimage: /img/slide3.jpg
tags:
  - services
---
![Atlanta Home Exterior Paint](/img/slide3.jpg "Atlanta Home Exterior Paint Professionals")

Your home is more than just a place to live. It's where memories are made and where dreams come true. Your home is where your life happens- shouldn't it look perfect?

At Arreguin's Paint Contractor, Inc., we believe that everyone deserves a beautiful home. That's why we use quality materials like Sherwin Williams, PPG, and Benjamin Moore paints. Our painters have all passed our rigorous training to prove they have the experience and dedication that we demand. Arreguin's Paint Contractor, Inc. isn't satisfied with our work until you are.

Are you struggling to sell your home? First impressions are important, and the right exterior paint can attract potential buyers. A small investment in the look of your home can reap large rewards. At Arreguin's Paint Contractor, Inc., we will work within your budget to get the most for your money.
